There are many types of water heaters in the market, and most of them are electric water heaters. At the time of home construction, they install electric water heaters but, they can't change them when it stops working. So, they repair their Electric water heater. Repairing an electric water heater is a difficult task.
In this article, we are giving you some guidance on repairing your water heater at home. But, if you think you can't do it yourself, then you can call a professional worker from Wodo. He/she will do your work more quickly at pocket-friendly rates.
Follow this step-by-step repair guide to make your water heater repair easy.

Water isn't gettin hot
The main function of this appliance is to heat water. But if it is failing to do so, there might be a problem with the heating element and the thermostat control. When there is little hot water, this is most likely caused by a low thermostat temperature. It can usually be remedied by turning up the thermostat. If you're getting zero hot water and it just runs cold, it could be that the unit's pilot light has blown out or a faulty heating element. On an electric water heater, the heating element is typically what causes this problem. For cases of zero hot water, It's always best to call in a professional plumber to ensure safe and efficient water heater repair.

Water Heater Repairing; when it leaks
One of the most common causes of a leaking water heater is an old tank. In these cases, the tank must usually be replaced to prevent further damage such as whole-house flooding, which can lead to costly repairs.
Leakes can also occur if there's a loose drain valve, which can usually be remedied by tightening the valve with the standard wrench. It's important to remember that the valve should feel snug but not overly tight. Condensation buildup is a common problem, and in these cases, the tank is not actually leaking, although it appears to be. Faulty valves and incoming water issues typically require professional water heater repair.

Water Heater repairing, when it make unusual noise.
Noisy tanks can indicate a variety of problems, many of which require water heater repair services. Sediment buildup is a minor issue that can easily be remedied by proper draining and yearly maintenance checkups. When there is sediment buildup, the tank will make a distinct popping sound. The heating element on your water heater may also be failing, and this can be fixed by the replacement of the element by a water heater repair professional.

Water temperature changes between hot and cold.
Find out why the water temperature in your water heater is not consistent and what parts you need to repair. If you notice a fluctuation in water temperature, we recommend you inspect the control thermostat and the lower heater element. This is a very technical problem, and you should call a professional worker for this.

These are the most common problems people face with their water heater. Whenever your water heater needs repairing, you can call a professional WODOworker, and he/she will do your work at very cheap rates.

